README.md, before:

# Pumba: Chaos testing tool for Docker

[![Circle CI](https://circleci.com/gh/gaia-adm/pumba.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/gaia-adm/pumba) [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/gaia-adm/pumba)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/gaia-adm/pumba) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/gaia-adm/pumba/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/gaia-adm/pumba?branch=master) [![](https://badge.imagelayers.io/gaiaadm/pumba:master.svg)](https://imagelayers.io/?images=gaiaadm/pumba:master) [![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/gaia-adm/pumba.svg?no-cache)](https://github.com/gaia-adm/pumba/releases/tag/0.1.10)
[![Docker badge](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/gaiaadm/pumba.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/gaiaadm/pumba/)

## Demo

*TODO* : need to record a new video here ...

## Usage

You can download Pumba binary for your OS from [release](https://github.com/gaia-adm/pumba/releases) page.

```
$ pumba help

Pumba version v0.2.0
NAME:
   Pumba - Pumba is a resilience testing tool, that helps applications tolerate random Docker container failures: process, network and performance.

USAGE:
   pumba [global options] command [command options] containers (name, list of names, RE2 regex)

VERSION:
   v0.2.0

COMMANDS:
     kill     kill specified containers
     netem    emulate the properties of wide area networks
     pause    pause all processes
     stop     stop containers
     rm       remove containers
     help, h  Shows a list of commands or help for one command

GLOBAL OPTIONS:
   --host value, -H value      daemon socket to connect to (default: "unix:///var/run/docker.sock") [$DOCKER_HOST]
   --tls                       use TLS; implied by --tlsverify
   --tlsverify                 use TLS and verify the remote [$DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY]
   --tlscacert value           trust certs signed only by this CA (default: "/etc/ssl/docker/ca.pem")
   --tlscert value             client certificate for TLS authentication (default: "/etc/ssl/docker/cert.pem")
   --tlskey value              client key for TLS authentication (default: "/etc/ssl/docker/key.pem")
   --debug                     enable debug mode with verbose logging
   --json                      produce log in JSON format: Logstash and Splunk friendly
   --slackhook value           web hook url; send Pumba log events to Slack
   --slackchannel value        Slack channel (default #pumba) (default: "#pumba")
   --interval value, -i value  recurrent interval for chaos command; use with optional unit suffix: 'ms/s/m/h'
   --random, -r                randomly select single matching container from list of target containers
   --dry                       dry runl does not create chaos, only logs planned chaos commands
   --help, -h                  show help
   --version, -v               print the version
```

### Kill Container command

```
$ pumba kill -h

NAME:
   pumba kill - kill specified containers

USAGE:
   pumba kill [command options] containers (name, list of names, RE2 regex)

DESCRIPTION:
   send termination signal to the main process inside target container(s)

OPTIONS:
   --signal value, -s value  termination signal, that will be sent by Pumba to the main process inside target container(s) (default: "SIGKILL")
```

### Pause Container command

```
$ pumba pause -h

NAME:
   pumba pause - pause all processes

USAGE:
   pumba pause [command options] containers (name, list of names, RE2 regex)

DESCRIPTION:
   pause all running processes within target containers

OPTIONS:
   --duration value, -d value  pause duration: should be smaller than recurrent interval; use with optional unit suffix: 'ms/s/m/h'
```

### Stop Container command

```
$ pumba stop -h
NAME:
   pumba stop - stop containers

USAGE:
   pumba stop [command options] containers (name, list of names, RE2 regex)

DESCRIPTION:
   stop the main process inside target containers, sending  SIGTERM, and then SIGKILL after a grace period

OPTIONS:
   --time value, -t value  seconds to wait for stop before killing container (default 10) (default: 10)
```

### Remove (rm) Container command

```
$ pumba rm -h

NAME:
   pumba rm - remove containers

USAGE:
   pumba rm [command options] containers (name, list of names, RE2 regex)

DESCRIPTION:
   remove target containers, with links and voluems

OPTIONS:
   --force, -f    force the removal of a running container (with SIGKILL)
   --links, -l    remove container links
   --volumes, -v  remove volumes associated with the container
```

### Network Emulation (netem) command

```
$ pumba netem -h

NAME:
   Pumba netem - delay, loss, duplicate and re-order (run 'netem') packets, to emulate different network problems

USAGE:
   Pumba netem command [command options] [arguments...]

COMMANDS:
     delay      dealy egress traffic
     loss
     duplicate
     corrupt

OPTIONS:
   --duration value, -d value   network emulation duration; should be smaller than recurrent interval; use with optional unit suffix: 'ms/s/m/h'
   --interface value, -i value  network interface to apply delay on (default: "eth0")
   --target value, -t value     target IP filter; netem will impact only on traffic to target IP
   --help, -h                   show help

NAME:
   Pumba netem - delay, loss, duplicate and re-order (run 'netem') packets, to emulate different network problems

USAGE:
   Pumba netem command [command options] [arguments...]

COMMANDS:
     delay      dealy egress traffic
     loss
     duplicate
     corrupt

OPTIONS:
   --duration value, -d value   network emulation duration; should be smaller than recurrent interval; use with optional unit suffix: 'ms/s/m/h'
   --interface value, -i value  network interface to apply delay on (default: "eth0")
   --target value, -t value     target IP filter; netem will impact only on traffic to target IP
   --help, -h                   show help
```

#### Network Emulation Delay sub-command

```
$ pumba netem delay -h

NAME:
   Pumba netem delay - dealy egress traffic

USAGE:
   Pumba netem delay [command options] containers (name, list of names, RE2 regex)

DESCRIPTION:
   dealy egress traffic for specified containers; networks show variability so it is possible to add random variation; delay variation isn't purely random, so to emulate that there is a correlation

OPTIONS:
   --amount value, -a value       delay amount; in milliseconds (default: 100)
   --variation value, -v value    random delay variation; in milliseconds; example: 100ms ± 10ms (default: 10)
   --correlation value, -c value  delay correlation; in percents (default: 20)
```

##### Example
```
   $ pumba --debug --interval 5m --random netem --duration 2m --interface eth2 delay --amount 2000 re2:^result
```
Once in 5 minutes, Pumba will delay for 2 seconds (2000ms) egress traffic for some (randomly chosen) container named `result...` (matching `^result` regexp) on `eth2` network interface. Pumba will restore normal connectivity after 2 minutes.

### Running inside Docker container

If you choose to use Pumba Docker [image](https://hub.docker.com/r/gaiaadm/pumba/) on Linux, use the following command:

```
docker run -d -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock gaiaadm/pumba pumba kill --interval 10s --signal SIGTERM ^hp
```
The above command, once in a 10 seconds, tries to kill (with `SIGTERM` signal) all containers named **hp(something)** on same Docker host, where Pumba container is running.

**Note:** For Windows and OS X you will need to use `--host` argument, since there is no unix socket `/var/run/docker.sock` to mount.

### Running Pumba on Kubernetes cluster

If you are running Kubernetes >= 1.1.0. You can take advantage of DaemonSets to automatically deploy the Pumba on all your nodes.
On 1.1.x you'll need to explicitly enable the DaemonSets extension, see http://kubernetes.io/v1.1/docs/admin/daemons.html#caveats.

You'll then be able to deploy the DaemonSet with the command
```
$ kubectl create -f pumba_kube.yml
```

If you are not running Kubernetes >= 1.1.0 or do not want to use DaemonSets, you can also run the Pumba as a regular docker container on each node you want to make chaos (see above)

### Running Pumba on CoreOS cluster

If you are running CoreOS cluster. You can use `fleetctl` command to deploy Pumba service file on every CoreOS cluster node.
You'll then be able to deploy the Pumba service with the command
```
$ fleetctl start pumba_coreos.service
```

## Build instructions

You can build Pumba with or without Go installed on your machine.

### Build using local Go environment

In order to build Pumba, you need to have Go 1.6+ setup on your machine.

Here is the approximate list of commands you will need to run:

```
cd $GOPATH
mkdir github.com/gaia-adm && cd github.com/gaia-adm
git clone git@github.com:gaia-adm/pumba.git
cd pumba
glide install
go build -v
```

### Build using Docker builder image

You do not have to install and configure Go in order to build and test Pumba project. Pubma builder Docker image contains Go 1.6 and all tools required to build and test Pumba.

First of all clone Pumba git repository:
```
git clone git@github.com:gaia-adm/pumba.git
cd pumba
```

Now create a Pumba builder Docker image.
```
docker build -t pumba/builder -f Build.Dockerfile .
```

Now you can use `pumba/builder` to build, test (with coverage) and deploy Pumba.

To build a new Pumba binary run the following command:
```
docker run --rm -v "$PWD":/go/src/github.com/gaia-adm/pumba -w /go/src/github.com/gaia-adm/pumba pumba/builder script/go_build.sh
```

To build new Pumba binaries for multiple platforms run the following command (using `gox` tool):
```
docker run --rm -v "$PWD":/go/src/github.com/gaia-adm/pumba -w /go/src/github.com/gaia-adm/pumba pumba/builder script/gox_build.sh
```

To run all Pumba tests and generate coverage report run the following command:
```
docker run --rm -v "$PWD":/go/src/github.com/gaia-adm/pumba -w /go/src/github.com/gaia-adm/pumba pumba/builder script/coverage.sh --html
```

## Used Libraries and Code

- Official Docker Engine API for Go [docker/engine-api](https://github.com/docker/engine-api)
- Docker Client [samalba/dockerclient](https://github.com/samalba/dockerclient) - refactoring to Docker Engine API
- Logging  [Sirupsen/logrus](https://github.com/Sirupsen/logrus)
- Command line app lib [codegangsta/cli](https://github.com/codegangsta/cli)

I've also borrowed some code from very good [CenturyLinkLabs/watchtower](https://github.com/CenturyLinkLabs/watchtower) project.

## License

Code is under the [Apache License v2](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt).

Commit message:

implement netem delay distribution; error check for tc command added

README.md, after:

# Pumba: Chaos testing tool for Docker

[![Circle CI](https://circleci.com/gh/gaia-adm/pumba.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/gaia-adm/pumba) [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/gaia-adm/pumba)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/gaia-adm/pumba) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/gaia-adm/pumba/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/gaia-adm/pumba?branch=master) [![](https://badge.imagelayers.io/gaiaadm/pumba:master.svg)](https://imagelayers.io/?images=gaiaadm/pumba:master) [![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/gaia-adm/pumba.svg?no-cache)](https://github.com/gaia-adm/pumba/releases/tag/0.1.10)
[![Docker badge](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/gaiaadm/pumba.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/gaiaadm/pumba/)

## Demo

*TODO* : need to record a new video here ...

## Usage

You can download Pumba binary for your OS from [release](https://github.com/gaia-adm/pumba/releases) page.

```
$ pumba help

Pumba version v0.2.2
NAME:
   Pumba - Pumba is a resilience testing tool, that helps applications tolerate random Docker container failures: process, network and performance.

USAGE:
   pumba [global options] command [command options] containers (name, list of names, RE2 regex)

VERSION:
   v0.2.2

COMMANDS:
     kill     kill specified containers
     netem    emulate the properties of wide area networks
     pause    pause all processes
     stop     stop containers
     rm       remove containers
     help, h  Shows a list of commands or help for one command

GLOBAL OPTIONS:
   --host value, -H value      daemon socket to connect to (default: "unix:///var/run/docker.sock") [$DOCKER_HOST]
   --tls                       use TLS; implied by --tlsverify
   --tlsverify                 use TLS and verify the remote [$DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY]
   --tlscacert value           trust certs signed only by this CA (default: "/etc/ssl/docker/ca.pem")
   --tlscert value             client certificate for TLS authentication (default: "/etc/ssl/docker/cert.pem")
   --tlskey value              client key for TLS authentication (default: "/etc/ssl/docker/key.pem")
   --debug                     enable debug mode with verbose logging
   --json                      produce log in JSON format: Logstash and Splunk friendly
   --slackhook value           web hook url; send Pumba log events to Slack
   --slackchannel value        Slack channel (default #pumba) (default: "#pumba")
   --interval value, -i value  recurrent interval for chaos command; use with optional unit suffix: 'ms/s/m/h'
   --random, -r                randomly select single matching container from list of target containers
   --dry                       dry runl does not create chaos, only logs planned chaos commands
   --help, -h                  show help
   --version, -v               print the version
```

### Kill Container command

```
$ pumba kill -h

NAME:
   pumba kill - kill specified containers

USAGE:
   pumba kill [command options] containers (name, list of names, RE2 regex)

DESCRIPTION:
   send termination signal to the main process inside target container(s)

OPTIONS:
   --signal value, -s value  termination signal, that will be sent by Pumba to the main process inside target container(s) (default: "SIGKILL")
```

### Pause Container command

```
$ pumba pause -h

NAME:
   pumba pause - pause all processes

USAGE:
   pumba pause [command options] containers (name, list of names, RE2 regex)

DESCRIPTION:
   pause all running processes within target containers

OPTIONS:
   --duration value, -d value  pause duration: should be smaller than recurrent interval; use with optional unit suffix: 'ms/s/m/h'
```

### Stop Container command

```
$ pumba stop -h
NAME:
   pumba stop - stop containers

USAGE:
   pumba stop [command options] containers (name, list of names, RE2 regex)

DESCRIPTION:
   stop the main process inside target containers, sending  SIGTERM, and then SIGKILL after a grace period

OPTIONS:
   --time value, -t value  seconds to wait for stop before killing container (default 10) (default: 10)
```

### Remove (rm) Container command

```
$ pumba rm -h

NAME:
   pumba rm - remove containers

USAGE:
   pumba rm [command options] containers (name, list of names, RE2 regex)

DESCRIPTION:
   remove target containers, with links and voluems

OPTIONS:
   --force, -f    force the removal of a running container (with SIGKILL)
   --links, -l    remove container links
   --volumes, -v  remove volumes associated with the container
```

### Network Emulation (netem) command

```
$ pumba netem -h

NAME:
   Pumba netem - delay, loss, duplicate and re-order (run 'netem') packets, to emulate different network problems

USAGE:
   Pumba netem command [command options] [arguments...]

COMMANDS:
     delay      dealy egress traffic
     loss
     duplicate
     corrupt

OPTIONS:
   --duration value, -d value   network emulation duration; should be smaller than recurrent interval; use with optional unit suffix: 'ms/s/m/h'
   --interface value, -i value  network interface to apply delay on (default: "eth0")
   --target value, -t value     target IP filter; netem will impact only on traffic to target IP
   --help, -h                   show help

NAME:
   Pumba netem - delay, loss, duplicate and re-order (run 'netem') packets, to emulate different network problems

USAGE:
   Pumba netem command [command options] [arguments...]

COMMANDS:
     delay      dealy egress traffic
     loss
     duplicate
     corrupt

OPTIONS:
   --duration value, -d value   network emulation duration; should be smaller than recurrent interval; use with optional unit suffix: 'ms/s/m/h'
   --interface value, -i value  network interface to apply delay on (default: "eth0")
   --target value, -t value     target IP filter; netem will impact only on traffic to target IP
   --help, -h                   show help
```

#### Network Emulation Delay sub-command

```
$ pumba netem delay -h

NAME:
   Pumba netem delay - dealy egress traffic

USAGE:
   Pumba netem delay [command options] containers (name, list of names, RE2 regex)

DESCRIPTION:
   dealy egress traffic for specified containers; networks show variability so it is possible to add random variation; delay variation isn't purely random, so to emulate that there is a correlation

OPTIONS:
   --time value, -t value          delay time; in milliseconds (default: 100)
   --jitter value, -j value        random delay variation (jitter); in milliseconds; example: 100ms ± 10ms (default: 10)
   --correlation value, -c value   delay correlation; in percentage (default: 20)
   --distribution value, -d value  delay distribution, can be one of {uniform | normal | pareto |  paretonormal} (default: "uniform")

```

##### Example
```
   $ pumba --debug --interval 5m --random netem --duration 2m --interface eth2 delay --time 2000 re2:^result
```
Pumba creates a 2s (2000ms) network delay for egress traffic for some (randomly chosen) container named `result...` (matching `^result` regexp) on `eth2` network interface. Pumba will exit and restore normal connectivity after 2 minutes.

**Note 1:** Pumba uses `tc` Linux tool for network emulation. Make sure that your container has this tool available and properly installed. `tc` usually avaialble as part of `iproute2` package.

**Note 2:** For Alpine Linux `tc`, you need to install `iproute2` package and also to create a symlink pointing to distribution files `ln -s /usr/lib/tc /lib/tc`

### Running inside Docker container

If you choose to use Pumba Docker [image](https://hub.docker.com/r/gaiaadm/pumba/) on Linux, use the following command:

```
docker run -d -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock gaiaadm/pumba pumba kill --interval 10s --signal SIGTERM ^hp
```
The above command, once in a 10 seconds, tries to kill (with `SIGTERM` signal) all containers named **hp(something)** on same Docker host, where Pumba container is running.

**Note:** For Windows and OS X you will need to use `--host` argument, since there is no unix socket `/var/run/docker.sock` to mount.

### Running Pumba on Kubernetes cluster

If you are running Kubernetes >= 1.1.0. You can take advantage of DaemonSets to automatically deploy the Pumba on all your nodes.
On 1.1.x you'll need to explicitly enable the DaemonSets extension, see http://kubernetes.io/v1.1/docs/admin/daemons.html#caveats.

You'll then be able to deploy the DaemonSet with the command
```
$ kubectl create -f pumba_kube.yml
```

If you are not running Kubernetes >= 1.1.0 or do not want to use DaemonSets, you can also run the Pumba as a regular docker container on each node you want to make chaos (see above)

### Running Pumba on CoreOS cluster

If you are running CoreOS cluster. You can use `fleetctl` command to deploy Pumba service file on every CoreOS cluster node.
You'll then be able to deploy the Pumba service with the command
```
$ fleetctl start pumba_coreos.service
```

## Build instructions

You can build Pumba with or without Go installed on your machine.

### Build using local Go environment

In order to build Pumba, you need to have Go 1.6+ setup on your machine.

Here is the approximate list of commands you will need to run:

```
cd $GOPATH
mkdir github.com/gaia-adm && cd github.com/gaia-adm
git clone git@github.com:gaia-adm/pumba.git
cd pumba
glide install
go build -v
```

### Build using Docker builder image

You do not have to install and configure Go in order to build and test Pumba project. Pubma builder Docker image contains Go 1.6 and all tools required to build and test Pumba.

First of all clone Pumba git repository:
```
git clone git@github.com:gaia-adm/pumba.git
cd pumba
```

Now create a Pumba builder Docker image.
```
docker build -t pumba/builder -f Build.Dockerfile .
```

Now you can use `pumba/builder` to build, test (with coverage) and deploy Pumba.

To build a new Pumba binary run the following command:
```
docker run --rm -v "$PWD":/go/src/github.com/gaia-adm/pumba -w /go/src/github.com/gaia-adm/pumba pumba/builder script/go_build.sh
```

To build new Pumba binaries for multiple platforms run the following command (using `gox` tool):
```
docker run --rm -v "$PWD":/go/src/github.com/gaia-adm/pumba -w /go/src/github.com/gaia-adm/pumba pumba/builder script/gox_build.sh
```

To run all Pumba tests and generate coverage report run the following command:
```
docker run --rm -v "$PWD":/go/src/github.com/gaia-adm/pumba -w /go/src/github.com/gaia-adm/pumba pumba/builder script/coverage.sh --html
```

## Used Libraries and Code

- Official Docker Engine API for Go [docker/engine-api](https://github.com/docker/engine-api)
- Docker Client [samalba/dockerclient](https://github.com/samalba/dockerclient) - refactoring to Docker Engine API
- Logging  [Sirupsen/logrus](https://github.com/Sirupsen/logrus)
- Command line app lib [codegangsta/cli](https://github.com/codegangsta/cli)

I've also borrowed some code from very good [CenturyLinkLabs/watchtower](https://github.com/CenturyLinkLabs/watchtower) project.

## License

Code is under the [Apache License v2](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt).
